== Matrix Abstract


==== Description

The templated class `matrix<T, F, A>` is the base container adaptor for
dense matrices. For a _(m x n_)-dimensional matrix and _0 <= i < m_, _0
<= j < n_ every element __m__~_i,j_~ is mapped to the __(i x n
j)-__th element of the container for row major orientation or the __(i+
j x m)-__th element of the container for column major orientation.

==== Example

[source,cpp]
....
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/matrix.hpp>
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/io.hpp>

int main () {
    using namespace boost::numeric::ublas;
    matrix<double> m (3, 3);
    for (unsigned i = 0; i < m.size1 (); ++ i)
        for (unsigned j = 0; j < m.size2 (); ++ j)
            m (i, j) = 3 * i + j;
    std::cout << m << std::endl;
}
....

==== Definition

Defined in the header matrix.hpp.

==== Template parameters

[cols=",,",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default

|`T` |The type of object stored in the matrix. |

|`F` |Functor describing the storage organization. link:#matrix_1[[1]]
|`row_major`

|`A` |The type of the link:storage_concept.html[Storage] array.
link:#matrix_2[[2]] |`unbounded_array<T>`
|===

==== Model of

link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Type requirements

None, except for those imposed by the requirements of
link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Public base classes

`matrix_container<matrix<T, F, A> >`

==== Members

[cols=",",]
|===
|Member |Description

|`matrix ()` |Allocates an uninitialized `matrix` that holds zero rows
of zero elements.

|`matrix (size_type size1, size_type size2)` |Allocates an uninitialized
`matrix` that holds `size1` rows of `size2` elements.

|`matrix (const matrix &m)` |The copy constructor.

|`template<class AE> matrix (const matrix_expression<AE> &ae)` |The
extended copy constructor.

|`void resize (size_type size1, size_type size2, bool preserve = true)`
|Reallocates a `matrix` to hold `size1` rows of `size2` elements. The
existing elements of the `matrix` are preseved when specified.

|`size_type size1 () const` |Returns the number of rows.

|`size_type size2 () const` |Returns the number of columns.

|`const array_type& data () const` |

|`array_type& data ()` |

|`const_reference operator () (size_type i, size_type j) const` |Returns
a `const` reference of the `j` -th element in the `i`-th row.

|`reference operator () (size_type i, size_type j)` |Returns a reference
of the `j`-th element in the `i`-th row.

|`matrix &operator = (const matrix &m)` |The assignment operator.

|`matrix &assign_temporary (matrix &m)` |Assigns a temporary. May change
the matrix `m`.

|`template<class AE> matrix &operator = (const matrix_expression<AE> &ae)`
|The extended assignment operator.

|`template<class AE> matrix &assign (const matrix_expression<AE> &ae)`
|Assigns a matrix expression to the matrix. Left and right hand side of
the assignment should be independent.

|`template<class AE> matrix &operator += (const matrix_expression<AE> &ae)`
|A computed assignment operator. Adds the matrix expression to the
matrix.

|`template<class AE> matrix &plus_assign (const matrix_expression<AE> &ae)`
|Adds a matrix expression to the matrix. Left and right hand side of the
assignment should be independent.

|`template<class AE> matrix &operator -= (const matrix_expression<AE> &ae)`
|A computed assignment operator. Subtracts the matrix expression from
the matrix.

|`template<class AE> matrix &minus_assign (const matrix_expression<AE> &ae)`
|Subtracts a matrix expression from the matrix. Left and right hand side
of the assignment should be independent.

|`template<class AT> matrix &operator *= (const AT &at)` |A computed
assignment operator. Multiplies the matrix with a scalar.

|`template<class AT> matrix &operator /= (const AT &at)` |A computed
assignment operator. Divides the matrix through a scalar.

|`void swap (matrix &m)` |Swaps the contents of the matrices.

|`void insert_element (size_type i, size_type j, const_reference t)`
|Inserts the value `t` at the `j`-th element of the `i`-th row.

|`void erase_element (size_type i, size_type j)` |Erases the value at
the `j`-th element of the `i`-th row.

|`void clear ()` |Clears the matrix.

|`const_iterator1 begin1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the beginning of the `matrix`.

|`const_iterator1 end1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the end of the `matrix`.

|`iterator1 begin1 ()` |Returns a `iterator1` pointing to the beginning
of the `matrix`.

|`iterator1 end1 ()` |Returns a `iterator1` pointing to the end of the
`matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 begin2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the beginning of the `matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 end2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the end of the `matrix`.

|`iterator2 begin2 ()` |Returns a `iterator2` pointing to the beginning
of the `matrix`.

|`iterator2 end2 ()` |Returns a `iterator2` pointing to the end of the
`matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rbegin1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rend1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the end of the reversed `matrix`.

|`reverse_iterator1 rbegin1 ()` |Returns a `reverse_iterator1` pointing
to the beginning of the reversed `matrix`.

|`reverse_iterator1 rend1 ()` |Returns a `reverse_iterator1` pointing to
the end of the reversed `matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rbegin2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rend2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the end of the reversed `matrix`.

|`reverse_iterator2 rbegin2 ()` |Returns a `reverse_iterator2` pointing
to the beginning of the reversed `matrix`.

|`reverse_iterator2 rend2 ()` |Returns a `reverse_iterator2` pointing to
the end of the reversed `matrix`.
|===

==== Notes

[#matrix_1]#[1]# Supported parameters for the storage organization are
`row_major` and `column_major`.

[#matrix_2]#[2]# Common parameters for the storage array are
`unbounded_array<T>` , `bounded_array<T>` and `std::vector<T>` .

=== [#identity_matrix]#Identity Matrix#

==== Description

The templated class `identity_matrix<T, ALLOC>` represents identity
matrices. For a _(m x n_)-dimensional identity matrix and _0 <= i < m_,
_0 <= j < n_ holds __id__~_i,j_~ = 0, if _i <> j_, and __id__~_i,i_~ .

==== Example

[source,cpp]
....
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/matrix.hpp>
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/io.hpp>

int main () {
    using namespace boost::numeric::ublas;
    identity_matrix<double> m (3);
    std::cout << m << std::endl;
}
....

==== Definition

Defined in the header matrix.hpp.

==== Template parameters

[cols=",,",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default

|`T` |The type of object stored in the matrix. |`int`

|`ALLOC` |An STL Allocator for size_type and difference_type.
|std::allocator
|===

==== Model of

link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Type requirements

None, except for those imposed by the requirements of
link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Public base classes

`matrix_container<identity_matrix<T> >`

==== Members

[cols=",",]
|===
|Member |Description

|`identity_matrix ()` |Constructs an `identity_matrix` that holds zero
rows of zero elements.

|`identity_matrix (size_type size)` |Constructs an `identity_matrix`
that holds `size` rows of `size` elements.

|`identity_matrix (const identity_matrix &m)` |The copy constructor.

|`void resize (size_type size, bool preserve = true)` |Resizes a
`identity_matrix` to hold `size` rows of `size` elements. Therefore the
existing elements of the `itendity_matrix` are always preseved.

|`size_type size1 () const` |Returns the number of rows.

|`size_type size2 () const` |Returns the number of columns.

|`const_reference operator () (size_type i, size_type j) const` |Returns
the value of the `j`-th element in the `i`-th row.

|`identity_matrix &operator = (const identity_matrix &m)` |The
assignment operator.

|`identity_matrix &assign_temporary (identity_matrix &m)` |Assigns a
temporary. May change the identity matrix `m` .

|`void swap (identity_matrix &m)` |Swaps the contents of the identity
matrices.

|`const_iterator1 begin1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the beginning of the `identity_matrix`.

|`const_iterator1 end1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the end of the `identity_matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 begin2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the beginning of the `identity_matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 end2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the end of the `identity_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rbegin1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`identity_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rend1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the end of the reversed
`identity_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rbegin2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`identity_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rend2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the end of the reversed
`identity_matrix`.
|===

=== [#zero_matrix]#Zero Matrix#

==== Description

The templated class `zero_matrix<T, ALLOC>` represents zero matrices.
For a _(m x n_)-dimensional zero matrix and _0 <= i < m_, _0 <= j < n_
holds __z__~_i,j_~ = 0.

==== Example

[source,cpp]
....
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/matrix.hpp>
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/io.hpp>

int main () {
    using namespace boost::numeric::ublas;
    zero_matrix<double> m (3, 3);
    std::cout << m << std::endl;
}
....

==== Definition

Defined in the header matrix.hpp.

==== Template parameters

[cols=",,",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default

|`T` |The type of object stored in the matrix. |`int`

|`ALLOC` |An STL Allocator for size_type and difference_type.
|std::allocator
|===

==== Model of

link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Type requirements

None, except for those imposed by the requirements of
link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Public base classes

`matrix_container<zero_matrix<T> >`

==== Members

[cols=",",]
|===
|Member |Description

|`zero_matrix ()` |Constructs a `zero_matrix` that holds zero rows of
zero elements.

|`zero_matrix (size_type size1, size_type size2)` |Constructs a
`zero_matrix` that holds `size1` rows of `size2` elements.

|`zero_matrix (const zero_matrix &m)` |The copy constructor.

|`void resize (size_type size1, size_type size2, bool preserve = true)`
|Resizes a `zero_matrix` to hold `size1` rows of `size2` elements.
Therefore the existing elements of the `zero_matrix` are always
preseved.

|`size_type size1 () const` |Returns the number of rows.

|`size_type size2 () const` |Returns the number of columns.

|`const_reference operator () (size_type i, size_type j) const` |Returns
the value of the `j`-th element in the `i`-th row.

|`zero_matrix &operator = (const zero_matrix &m)` |The assignment
operator.

|`zero_matrix &assign_temporary (zero_matrix &m)` |Assigns a temporary.
May change the zero matrix `m` .

|`void swap (zero_matrix &m)` |Swaps the contents of the zero matrices.

|`const_iterator1 begin1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the beginning of the `zero_matrix`.

|`const_iterator1 end1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the end of the `zero_matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 begin2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the beginning of the `zero_matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 end2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the end of the `zero_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rbegin1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`zero_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rend1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the end of the reversed
`zero_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rbegin2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`zero_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rend2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the end of the reversed
`zero_matrix`.
|===

=== [#scalar_matrix]#Scalar Matrix#

==== Description

The templated class `scalar_matrix<T, ALLOC>` represents scalar
matrices. For a _(m x n_)-dimensional scalar matrix and _0 <= i < m_, _0
<= j < n_ holds __z__~_i,j_~ = s.

==== Example

[source,cpp]
....
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/matrix.hpp>
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/io.hpp>

int main () {
    using namespace boost::numeric::ublas;
    scalar_matrix<double> m (3, 3);
    std::cout << m << std::endl;
}
....

==== Definition

Defined in the header matrix.hpp.

==== Template parameters

[cols=",,",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default

|`T` |The type of object stored in the matrix. |`int`

|`ALLOC` |An STL Allocator for size_type and difference_type.
|std::allocator
|===

==== Model of

link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Type requirements

None, except for those imposed by the requirements of
link:container_concept.html#matrix[Matrix] .

==== Public base classes

`matrix_container<scalar_matrix<T> >`

==== Members

[cols=",",]
|===
|Member |Description

|`scalar_matrix ()` |Constructs a `scalar_matrix` that holds scalar rows
of zero elements.

|`scalar_matrix (size_type size1, size_type size2, const value_type &value)`
|Constructs a `scalar_matrix` that holds `size1` rows of `size2`
elements each of the specified value.

|`scalar_matrix (const scalar_matrix &m)` |The copy constructor.

|`void resize (size_type size1, size_type size2, bool preserve = true)`
|Resizes a `scalar_matrix` to hold `size1` rows of `size2` elements.
Therefore the existing elements of the `scalar_matrix` are always
preseved.

|`size_type size1 () const` |Returns the number of rows.

|`size_type size2 () const` |Returns the number of columns.

|`const_reference operator () (size_type i, size_type j) const` |Returns
the value of the `j`-th element in the `i`-th row.

|`scalar_matrix &operator = (const scalar_matrix &m)` |The assignment
operator.

|`scalar_matrix &assign_temporary (scalar_matrix &m)` |Assigns a
temporary. May change the scalar matrix `m` .

|`void swap (scalar_matrix &m)` |Swaps the contents of the scalar
matrices.

|`const_iterator1 begin1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the beginning of the `scalar_matrix`.

|`const_iterator1 end1 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator1` pointing
to the end of the `scalar_matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 begin2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the beginning of the `scalar_matrix`.

|`const_iterator2 end2 () const` |Returns a `const_iterator2` pointing
to the end of the `scalar_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rbegin1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`scalar_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator1 rend1 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator1` pointing to the end of the reversed
`scalar_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rbegin2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`scalar_matrix`.

|`const_reverse_iterator2 rend2 () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator2` pointing to the end of the reversed
`scalar_matrix`.
|===