== Range and Slice Storage


=== [#range]#Range<SizeType,DistanceType>#

==== Description

The class `range` specifies a range of indicies. The range is a sequence
of indices from a start value to stop value. The indices increase by one
and exlude the stop value. `range` can therefore be used to specify
ranges of elements from vectors and matrices.

==== Example

[source, cpp]
....
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/storage.hpp>

int main () {
    using namespace boost::numeric::ublas;
    range r (0, 3);
    for (unsigned i = 0; i < r.size (); ++ i) {
        std::cout << r (i) << std::endl;
    }
}
....

==== Definition

Defined in the header storage.hpp.

==== Model of

Reversible Container.

==== Type requirements

None, except for those imposed by the requirements of Reversible
Container.

==== Public base classes

None.

==== Members

[cols=",",]
|===
|Member |Description

|`range (size_type start, size_type stop)` |Constructs a range of
indicies from `start` to `stop (excluded)` .

|`size_type start () const` |Returns the beginning of the `range`.

|`size_type size () const` |Returns the size of the `range`.

|`const_reference operator [] (size_type i) const` |Returns the value
`start + i` of the `i` -th element.

|`range compose (const range &r) const` |Returns the composite range
from `start + r.start ()` to `start + r.start () + r.size ()`.

|`bool operator == (const range &r) const` |Tests two ranges for
equality.

|`bool operator != (const range &r) const` |Tests two ranges for
inequality.

|`const_iterator begin () const` |Returns a `const_iterator` pointing to
the beginning of the `range`.

|`const_iterator end () const` |Returns a `const_iterator` pointing to
the end of the `range`.

|`const_reverse_iterator rbegin () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`range`.

|`const_reverse_iterator rend () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator` pointing to the end of the reversed `range`.
|===

==== Preconditions

* `start () < = stop ()`

=== [#slice]#Slice<SizeType,DistanceType>#

==== Description

The class `slice` specifies a 'slice' of indicies. Slices are more
general then ranges, the stride allows the sequence of indicies to
increase and decrease by the specified amount between element. `slice`
can therefore be used to specify slices of element from vectors and
matrices.

==== Example

[source,cpp]
....
#include <boost/numeric/ublas/storage.hpp>

int main () {
    using namespace boost::numeric::ublas;
    slice s (0, 1, 3);
    for (unsigned i = 0; i < s.size (); ++ i) {
        std::cout << s (i) << std::endl;
    }
}
....

==== Definition

Defined in the header storage.hpp.

==== Model of

Reversible Container.

==== Type requirements

None, except for those imposed by the requirements of Reversible
Container.

==== Public base classes

None.

==== Members

[cols=",",]
|===
|Member |Description

|`slice (size_type start, size_type stride, size_type size)` |Constructs
a slice `start,start+stride,start+2*stride...` with `size` elements.

|`size_type start () const` |Returns the beginning of the `slice`.

|`size_type stride () const` |Returns the stride of the `slice`.

|`size_type size () const` |Returns the size of the `slice`.

|`const_reference operator [] (size_type i) const` |Returns the value
`start + i * stride` of the `i`-th element.

|`slice compose (const range &r) const` |Returns the composite slice
from `start + stride * r.start ()` to
`start + stride * (r.start () + r.size ())` with stride `stride`.

|`slice compose (const slice &s) const` |Returns the composite slice
from `start + stride * s.start ()` to
`start + stride * s.stride () * (s.start () + s.size ())` with stride
`stride * s.stride ()` .

|`bool operator == (const slice &s) const` |Tests two slices for
equality.

|`bool operator != (const slice &s) const` |Tests two slices for
inequality.

|`const_iterator begin () const` |Returns a `const_iterator` pointing to
the beginning of the `slice`.

|`const_iterator end () const` |Returns a `const_iterator` pointing to
the end of the `slice`.

|`const_reverse_iterator rbegin () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator` pointing to the beginning of the reversed
`slice`.

|`const_reverse_iterator rend () const` |Returns a
`const_reverse_iterator` pointing to the end of the reversed `slice`.
|===

==== Preconditions

* None all strides are vaild. However when an index is returned or an
iterator is dereferenced its value must be representable as the
size_type.